Adding calling other interfaces in callback tutorial (#2751)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/How-To-Guides/Interface-In-Callbacks.rst

> Invoking Action/Service in Callbacks (C++/Python3)

Reviewer: Again, a bit pedantic, but depending on how you interpret "Invoke", you can start a service call in a callback, you just can't wait on it to finish. So Maybe this should be "Wait on an Action or Service in Callbacks (C++/Python3)"?

Author: While I agree that you are correct, I think that is not going to catch the eye of people looking for documentation about how to 'do a thing'. If I were a user realizing I couldn't call / invoke / request a service/action in a callback and went to the documentation, this title would immediately make me realize this is what I was looking for. `Waiting`, while technically correct, isn't quite the same at least in my eyes. That slight level of indirection I think would be problematic.

I can respect the desire to be technically accurate, but for documentation titles, I think answering the key question of "why should I click on this webpage?" is more important than being entirely specific. If you feel differently, I can change this, but wanted to lay out my reasoning.

Reviewer: How about `Using Actions/Services in Callbacks (C++/Python3)`?

To me that read as "if you are using actions/services in a callback you might want to read this" or "if you're having trouble with actions/services and callbacks look here".

While that's over matching a bit (you can "use" an action or service in a callback without blocking), I think it will hit most people looking for help and is better (in my opinion) than "invoking", simply because if I ask myself "what does invoking mean" I can't answer it clearly. Whereas "use" is intentionally vague.

Sorry, I know it's a bit of bikeshedding, but I think it's useful to have as clear and consistent terms here as possible.

==================================================

**Goal:** Learn how to invoke services and/or action servers in a callback of another action, service, subscription, or timer.

**Tutorial level:** Intermediate

**Time:** 20 minutes

**Author:** Steve Macenski

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Prerequisites
-------------

Before continuing in this tutorial, ensure you have a grasp on the basic ROS interfaces (e.g. topics, services, actions), executors, and callback groups.

You can find basic information about ROS interfaces in the Intermediate and Advanced tutorial series.
More information about executors and callback groups can be found below.

- :ref:`Executors`
- :ref:`callback_groups`

Background
----------

> There are times that it is necessary to call a server from a callback function.
> For example, you wish to call an action server from the callback of another action server (for example, in Nav2's `waypoint follower <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/main/nav2_waypoint_follower/>`_) or you would like to call a service from the callback of a subscription, service, or timer (for example, Nav2's `lifecycle manager <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/main/nav2_lifecycle_manager/src/lifecycle_manager.cpp>`_).

Reviewer: Again, "call" is not very precise language here, how about something like:

```suggestion
There are times when it is necessary to wait on a ROS thing to finish from within a ROS callback function, like waiting for a ROS Service call to complete from within a ROS Timer callback.
For a more concrete example, you might wish to call an action server from the callback of another action server, like in Nav2's `waypoint follower <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/main/nav2_waypoint_follower/>`_.
Or perhaps you would like to call a service from the callback of a subscription, service, or timer, like in Nav2's `lifecycle manager <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/main/nav2_lifecycle_manager/src/lifecycle_manager.cpp>`_.
```

Also, I'm concerned these links to the examples are fragile (like if the package and/or files get renamed or are changed to no longer do what is described, i.e. we're pointing to `main` which is a moving target).

It might be better to use abstract examples, and just say:

```suggestion
There are times when it is necessary to wait on a ROS thing to finish from within a ROS callback function, like waiting for a ROS Service call to complete from within a ROS Timer callback, as an example.
```

Author: I get the point that you're trying to make (from the title discussion above) and I will update this to be inline with your stance while also providing some more tutorial-grade follow up explanation. 

I wanted to provide a couple of really specific examples of applications of this work. I agree the `main` can be fragile. What if I changed these to a distribution branch (e.g. `humble`)?

Reviewer: Well, even humble could change, though less likely.

I would actually rather see the snippets copy-pasted here, or a permalink (using a commit hash) were to be used.

Alternatively a version tag could be used.

I'm not going to block this pr on this point, but I do think we should just avoid branch references at all costs in documentation. They're bound to break some of the time.

Also the point of these examples is to demonstrate the problem/solution here, not to reference the latest code, so in that sense a permalink being old at some point doesn't matter so much.

> In these situations, it is not possible to use only a ``Node``'s provided Single Threaded Executor.

Reviewer: A Node doesn't provide a single threaded executor, generally speaking. So this either needs more context or qualification of some sort.

Reviewer: Maybe you meant to say, in these aforementioned examples? But even then it's not the node supplying the executor.

Author: Correct, I can be more specific here

This is due to the current executor being spun already and having its thread being used to process the current callback.
If a user attempts to ``spin_until_future_complete`` or ``spin_once`` or similar on the executor, it will throw an exception because the current executor is already spinning.
This prevents the ``Node``'s executor from being used to process an action or service request to receive a result.

If using a Multi-Threaded Executor, a similar result will occur since the executor is already spinning.
The benefit of Multi-Threaded Executors is being able to process multiple callbacks in parallel, but still only one instance of ``spin`` can be valid at a given time.

Thus, we need to make use of additional executors.
This guide highlights how to use additional Single Threaded Executors to enable calling services and actions within other callbacks by means of executors and callback groups in C++.

> In python, it will show how to use this with multiple ``Node`` objects instead, since ``rclpy`` does not have analogous structures of executors and callback groups.

Reviewer: Is this right?

There's callback groups:

https://github.com/ros2/rclpy/blob/c4cf7a025ce407b1ae1031dda19b0fcb685e0831/rclpy/rclpy/callback_groups.py#L93

And Executors:

https://github.com/ros2/rclpy/blob/c4cf7a025ce407b1ae1031dda19b0fcb685e0831/rclpy/rclpy/executors.py#L707

Author: Correct, I need to reword that. Oversimplification. 

This is what we talked about on the call, you can't add them in the same way as you can in C++ requiring you to use an internal `Node` instead. If you can show me how to do what's analog in C++ described in this tutorial, I'll happily update the python part of the tutorial. 

There isn't an API in rclpy for adding a callback group to an executor, only a node. Thus, to have a separate executor running to call the action/service in another callback, you need a new `node` object wrapping what you want to do, which contains the different callback group, rather than being able to handle it inline within the same node class. https://docs.ros2.org/latest/api/rclpy/api/execution_and_callbacks.html

Reviewer: I was talking to @sloretz about this and I think there's a better way to do this which doesn't use an extra node and also does not need the changes to the executor which are missing. Here's an example:

```python
import rclpy

from rclpy.executors import SingleThreadedExecutor
from example_interfaces.srv import AddTwoInts

rclpy.init()
node = rclpy.create_node('await_example')
client = node.create_client(AddTwoInts, 'add_two_ints')

# TODO(sloretz) need an awaitable wait_for_service
client.wait_for_service()

async def cb_with_service_call():
    global client
    result = await client.call_async(AddTwoInts.Request(a=2, b=3))
    print('waiting for service to reply')
    print('Got reply:', result.sum)

gc = node.create_guard_condition(cb_with_service_call)

executor = SingleThreadedExecutor()
executor.add_node(node)

gc.trigger()

executor.spin()
```

The magic here is the `async` and `await` keywords used in the `cb_with_service_call()` function. And that's in the callback for a guard condition, but it could also be in a subscription, action, service callback, whatever.

And to see this in action, you need a service server that waits, otherwise there's no time delay between waiting for the service and getting the response:

```python
import time
import rclpy

from example_interfaces.srv import AddTwoInts

rclpy.init()

node = rclpy.create_node('await_example')
client = node.create_client(AddTwoInts, 'add_two_ints')

def cb(request, response):
    # TODO(sloretz) need an awaitable sleep in rclpy
    print('Service taking a nap')
    time.sleep(15)
    response.sum = request.a + request.b
    print('Service sending a response')
    return response

service = node.create_service(AddTwoInts, 'add_two_ints', cb)

rclpy.spin(node)
```

rclcpp
------

Lets start with some node containing both an action and a service.
Both the action server and the service server are sharing an implicit executor and callback group using the defaults in the ``Node`` object.

.. code-block:: cpp

    class MyNode : public rclcpp::Node
    {
      MyNode::MyNode(const rclcpp::NodeOptions & options = rclcpp::NodeOptions())
      : Node("my_node", options)
      {
        service_client_ = create_client<SrvT>("service");

        action_server_ = rclcpp_action::create_server<ActionT>(
          this,
          "action",
          std::bind(&MyNode::handle_goal, this, _1, _2),
          std::bind(&MyNode::handle_cancel, this, _1),
          std::bind(&MyNode::handle_accepted, this, _1));
      }

      void handle_accepted(const std::shared_ptr<GoalHandle> goal_handle)
      {
        // Do some work
        // ...

        auto request = std::make_shared<SrvT::Request>();
        auto result_future = service_client_->async_send_request(request);
        rclcpp::spin_until_future_complete(this, result_future);
        auto result = result_future.get()

        // Do something with the result
        // ...

>       }

Reviewer: Maybe it would be simpler to use a timer? I don't see the use of actions here to be helpful in explaining this. Just a suggestion.

Author: A timer would be fine too, but I like that this has a direct correlation to design patterns we use in Nav2 that I can point to in the future to newbies that want to make a new server in Nav2.

Reviewer: Ok, sounds good.

    };

    int main(int argc, char * argv[])
    {
      rclcpp::init(argc, argv);
      auto node = std::make_shared<MyNode>();

>       rclcpp::spin(node->get_node_base_interface());

Reviewer: nitpick: I don't think you need the explicit node base interface part:

```suggestion
      rclcpp::spin(node);
```

>       rclcpp::shutdown();

Reviewer: nitpick: you don't need an explicit shutdown:

```suggestion
```

      return 0;
    }

As written, this node will throw an exception when ``spin_until_future_complete`` is calls at run-time since the node is already spun in ``main()``, preventing us from getting the result of the service call.

We can modify this node however such that the service client or action server are being processed on another thread via another executor.
For this example, we will process the service client using another callback group that we add to an internal executor.

.. code-block:: cpp

    MyNode::MyNode(const rclcpp::NodeOptions & options = rclcpp::NodeOptions())
    : Node("my_node", options)
    {
      callback_group_ = create_callback_group(rclcpp::CallbackGroupType::MutuallyExclusive, false);
      service_executor_.add_callback_group(callback_group_, node_->get_node_base_interface());
      service_client_ = create_client<SrvT>("service", rmw_qos_profile_services_default, callback_group_);

      action_server_ = rclcpp_action::create_server<ActionT>(
        this,
        "action",
        std::bind(&MyNode::handle_goal, this, _1, _2),
        std::bind(&MyNode::handle_cancel, this, _1),
        std::bind(&MyNode::handle_accepted, this, _1));
    }

> Now, instead of using ``rclcpp::spin_until_future_complete()`` to receive our service's response (which uses the internal ``Node`` executor passed by ``this``), we will specifically invoke the ``service_executor_`` to process our callback group containing the service.

Reviewer: Again, the node doesn't have an internal executor, or actually worse, it may (in order to handle `use_sim_time` better) but it's not the one you're speaking about.

You should say instead:

```suggestion
Now, instead of using ``rclcpp::spin_until_future_complete()`` to receive our service's response (which uses the executor the ``Node`` was spun by in the main thread), we will specifically invoke the ``service_executor_`` to process our callback group containing the service.
```

Also, they aren't using the same executor:

- `rclcpp::spin()` has this executor:
  - https://github.com/ros2/rclcpp/blob/33dae5d679751b603205008fcb31755986bcee1c/rclcpp/src/rclcpp/executors.cpp#L33
- `rclcpp::spin_until_future_complete()` has its own executor here:
  - https://github.com/ros2/rclcpp/blob/33dae5d679751b603205008fcb31755986bcee1c/rclcpp/include/rclcpp/executors.hpp#L110

The problem is actually that the node (and therefore its default callback group) is being added to more than one executor at once, which is not allowed.

Author: I agree on cleaning up the semantics on the 2 executors, can do.

.. code-block:: cpp

    void handle_accepted(const std::shared_ptr<GoalHandle> goal_handle)
    {
      // Do some work
      // ...

      auto request = std::make_shared<SrvT::Request>();
      auto result_future = service_client_->async_send_request(request);

>       service_executor_.spin_until_future_complete(result_future);

Reviewer: `service_executor_` is never defined, and that's probably an important detail to include.

      auto result = result_future.get()

      // Do something with the result
      // ...
    }

> And thus, our node will now successfully process the service request on another thread, using another executor while the main thread from ``Node``'s executor is blocked while processing the main action server request.

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to this sentence as `warning`? I believe this is really important for user to understand the main thread is also blocked and cannot execute anything until service call is completed.

```suggestion
.. warning::

  And thus, our node will now successfully process the service request on another thread, using another executor while the main thread from ``Node``'s executor is blocked while processing the main action server request.
```
